Cm/use effect rewrite (#77)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: useeffect-and-calling-apis/useeffect-after-render.md

| Stage            | Description                                                                        |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Mounting Stage   | Occurs when an instance of a component is being created and inserted into the DOM. |
| Updating Stage   | Occurs when a component is being re-rendered.                                  |
| Unmounting Stage | Occurs when a component is being removed from the DOM.                           |

> React class components have specific [lifecycle methods](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#the-component-lifecycle) that we can use to hook into the component lifecycle. For React Hooks, we can use the `useEffect` hook to execute code during the `Mounting Stage`, `Updating Stage` and `Unmounting Stage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React class components have specific [lifecycle methods](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#the-component-lifecycle) that we can use to hook into the component lifecycle. But for React Hooks, we can use the `useEffect` hook to execute code across the entire lifecycle of a component&mdash; `Mounting Stage`, `Updating Stage` and `Unmounting Stage`.
```

## `useEffect` Executes After Render

The [**`useEffect` hook**](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) is a hook function that runs during these lifecycle steps:

- `Mounting Stage`
- `Updating Stage` - When specific props or state variables change
- `Unmounting Stage`

This means that the `useEffect` hooks can run:

- Once in the `Mounting Stage`, *after* the component is successfully inserted into the DOM and fully renders
- In the `Update Stage`, after a prop or state variable changes
- Once in the `Unmounting Stage`, right before the component is removed from the DOM

In summary, we can say that `useEffect` is called after a component renders.

## Calling `useEffect`

To use the `useEffect` hook, we call the `useEffect` function with two parameters:

> 1. A callback function that describes what to do _after the component fully renders_ just after the `Mounting Stage` or during `Update Stage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A callback function that describes what to do _after the component fully renders_, ie. just after the `Mounting Stage` or during `Update Stage`.
```

> 1. A "dependency" array. This array contains references to any _props or state_ to _watch_. Whenever any watched props or state update, `useEffect` will run.

Reviewer: I say we go with the listening metaphor since they will have heard about event listeners during vanilla javascript. It might make more sense to them that way/

```suggestion
1. A "dependency" array. This array contains references to any _props or state_ we want to _listen for_. Then whenever any of those props or state update, `useEffect` will run.
```

>    - If we don't define this array, `useEffect` will be called during _every_ `Update Stage`. That is, every time the component re-renders.
>    - This array can be empty `[]` to indicate we are not watching for any updates.
>      - This means that the given callback function will only run once, when the component first renders.

Reviewer: hmm i say we make this a call out since it's so important

```suggestion
### !callout-danger

## Watch Out for Infinite Loop

   - If we don't define this array, `useEffect` will be called during _every_ `Update Stage`. That is, every time the component re-renders. That can turn into an endless re-rendering loop.
   - This array can be empty `[]` to indicate we are not watching for any updates.
     - This means that the given callback function will only run once, when the component first renders.

### !end-callout
```

In this example we define a `ComponentWithCleanup` component, which logs a message to the console in its cleanup function. The `App` component has a button that toggles whether to include the `ComponentWithCleanup` in the rendered output.

You can see a running example of this app in [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/green-violet-pwksu?file=/src/App.js).

<br/>

When the app is rendered, we see the messages logged to the console through the component's `useEffect` function. Then when we click the button, the component is removed from the rendered output, and we see the cleanup message appear in the console log.

</details>

### !end-callout

## Summary

> The `useEffect` hook, allows us to define a function which will execute at specific points in the lifecycle of a component. In particular a `useEffect` callback function can be executed at the following points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useEffect` hook allows us to define a function which will execute at specific points in the lifecycle of a component. In particular, a `useEffect` callback function can be executed at the following points:
```

- `Mounting Stage`
- `Updating Stage`
- `Unmounting Stage`

This allows us to do things like:

1. Make an API call to retrieve data.
1. Close a database connection
1. Respond to changes in a prop or state variable value

> Our primary use of the `useEffect` hook, will be to handle API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our primary use of the `useEffect` hook will be to handle API calls.
```
